# Preamble
This folder has exemplars of my writing and research skills including my publications and graphs/images based on my research. This folder also includes data from my hobby projects mostly around historical cartography and statistical data from British rule in India.

The different elements of the folder are organized in the following order: the research outputs (peer-reviewed publications) and associated graphs/figures take priority while the hobby projects which include graphs/maps are slotted in after the published research outputs.

Below is a list of the files with a brief description of each:

## Examples of Research Outputs

**1. [Spearheading Agile- The Role of the Scrum Master in Agile Projects](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/6d3b3fc4033fda59dcbf93391c15e48dc9b51b86/Spearheading%20agile%20the%20role%20of%20the%20scrum%20master%20in%20Agile%20Projects.pdf):** This paper presented for the first time a multifaceted study of the multiple dimensions of the scrum master's role in Agile Software Development (ASD). The scrum master is envisioned in agile literature as the “servant leader” who serves the team in a multitude of different ways, which include promoting scrum, facilitating the team’s functioning, and removing obstacles. However, there was a lack of empirical studies which looked at the scrum master's role. This study filled an important gap in the knowledge base on ASD. The study was Mixed Methods (MM) which synthesized qualitative and quantitative data derived from interviews and surveys.

**2. [The Role of the Project Manager in Agile Software Development Projects](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/b04dc9dbe402a26f807232bff6e1ffa8bbc1eae4/The%20Role%20of%20the%20Project%20Manager%20in%20Agile%20Software%20Development%20Projects.pdf):** This paper presented the results of a study on the role of project managers in ASD projects. This study was a Mixed Methods study as well and used a combination to surveys and interviews for data collection. This study was unique as it presented different aspects of the project manager’s role such as the informal activities, the management approaches adopted on a day-to-day basis and their influence on Agile practices used by the team. The version uploaded here is a pre-print one and the final published version can be accessed [here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2020.110871).

**3. [A mind map visualisation of the six informal roles played by the Agile Manager](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/04048a41416b81cf243036f10287391429f86587/Mindmap%20of%20roles%20of%20agile%20manager.png):** This mind map is a shorthand visualization of some of the key findings of my PhD research, which was a study of the different roles in Agile Software Development (ASD) projects. The visualisation presents the six informal and spontaneous roles played by the manager (Mentor, Facilitator, Negotiator, Coordinator, Protector, and Process Adapter) with the key activities performed as part of each informal role.

**4. [Change in how often an Agile practice is used by the team](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/04048a41416b81cf243036f10287391429f86587/Change_in_frequency_of_agile_practice.png):** This visualisation is based on quantitative data gathered via surveys from software professionals.While it does not imply correlation it does suggest that there can be a relationship between the presence of the formal titles (project manager,scrum master, and product owner) and how frequently an agile practice is used. A positive  value,coded in green in the figure, indicates that the frequency of a practice goes up when,say a project manager, is present. Similarly, a negative value, coded in green, indicates that the frequency of a practice goes down when a formal title is present.

**5. [Example of a Radar Chart based on Qualitative data](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/2e63b5e9dc9c8276b04c0f522e25f70347a44673/Radar_chart_project_manager_informal_roles_agile.JPG):** This radar chart from my PhD research is a quantiative visualisation of underlying qualitative data. It shows what percentage of project managers in the study performed a particular informal role (Mentor, Facilitator, Negotiator, Coordinator, Protector, and Process Adapter). 

## Hobby Projects
**1. [Visualization of 150 years of Land Revenue data for Tirunelveli district,India ](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/9facbc09c7e22e6956867e7130ec12281068ed97/Land%20Revenue%20per%20acre-Tirunelveli%20district%201801-1947.png):** This graph is based on statistical data from 1801-1947 CE of land revenue collected by the British administration for a single district (Tirunelveli) in Tamil Nadu state of India. While data for around 110 years was  available from a single source, the missing data for around 40 years had to be painstakingly collected from a multitude of revenue reports of the last two centuries. I have uploaded the [complete dataset](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/9facbc09c7e22e6956867e7130ec12281068ed97/British_Land_Revenue_Tirunelveli_district_data.xlsx) in spreadsheet format.

**2. [Visualization of Net Income of farmers 1801-1931 CE for Tirunelveli district,India ](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/9facbc09c7e22e6956867e7130ec12281068ed97/Net%20income%20of%20farmer%201801-1931.png):** This visualization is based on the same dataset as the previous visualization and depicts the farmer's income from an acre of land. The amounts have been adjusted for inflation based on index numbers given by Government of India publications and Fred Atkinsons index numbers.

**3. [Visualization of Land Revenue as a percentage of yield per acre 1801-1947CE for Tirunelveli district,India ](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/2d46cf1fb8ede787143fd7eb8ccd9ae4b9b43562/Ryotwari%20Land%20Revenue%20as%20percentage%20of%20average%20yield.png):** This graph presents another perspective on the land revenue data where the land revenue has been converted into equivalent grain stock. This illustrates the amount of grain that farmers had to sell to pay the land revenue for one acre of land.

**4. [A Basemap of South India created using Inkscape](https://github.com/yyshastri/Portfolio/blob/0d5b9c5b2e52841f3145aae9f6d343c834f18dea/Map%20of%20South%20India%20v1.png):** This map is part of a larger project to provide a copyright free basemap with cities and towns from the Indian sub-continent which can be used for a variety of purposes including depicting historical battles, changes in places/regions over time etc. The map was traced over an archival map using Inkscape.
